[docs] flesh out asset handling tips and move to docs (#3984)
sveltejs/kit: documentation/docs/16-assets.md

---
title: Asset handling
---

### Hashing

To include hashes in your asset file names and cache them, you can have Vite process your assets by importing them as shown below:

```html

> <script>
> 	import imageSrc from '$lib/assets/image.png';
> </script>
> 
> <img src="{imageSrc}" />

Reviewer: maybe we make this less abstract? also, it should have an alt attribute, and we don't need to enclose it in quotes

```suggestion
<script>
	import logo from '$lib/assets/logo.png';
</script>

<img alt="The project logo" src={logo} />
```

```

> If you prefer to directly import in the markup, you can use a preprocessors to assist with this such as [svelte-preprocess-import-assets](https://github.com/bluwy/svelte-preprocess-import-assets) or [svelte-image](https://github.com/matyunya/svelte-image).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you prefer to references assets directly in the markup, you can use a preprocessor such as [svelte-preprocess-import-assets](https://github.com/bluwy/svelte-preprocess-import-assets) or [svelte-image](https://github.com/matyunya/svelte-image).
```

> For assets included via `url()` in you may find the [`experimental.useVitePreprocess`](https://github.com/sveltejs/vite-plugin-svelte/blob/main/docs/config.md#usevitepreprocess) option in `vite-plugin-svelte` to be useful.

Author: I believe you can just do:
```
/** @type {import('@sveltejs/kit').Config} */
const config = {
	experimental: {
		useVitePreprocess: true
	}
};

export default config;
```

### Optimization

> You may wish to utilize compressed image formats such as `.webp` or `.avif` or responsive images that serve a different size based on your device's screen. For images that are included statically in your project you may use a preprocessor like [svelte-image](https://github.com/matyunya/svelte-image) or Vite plugin such as [vite-imagetools](https://github.com/JonasKruckenberg/imagetools).

Reviewer: I realise it's out of scope of this PR but it'd be great if we had a canonical recommendation, rather than 'you could try this thing or that thing 🤷'

```suggestion
You may wish to utilize compressed image formats such as `.webp` or `.avif` or responsive images that serve a different size based on your device's screen. For images that are included statically in your project you may use a preprocessor like [svelte-image](https://github.com/matyunya/svelte-image) or a Vite plugin such as [vite-imagetools](https://github.com/JonasKruckenberg/imagetools).
```

Author: totally agree
